Dear colleague,

According to information from inSPIRE, you have in the past used my
computer algebra system Cadabra to help with computations for one or
more of your papers. Many thanks for citing my work.

I am currently planning a major upgrade to Cadabra, and am in the
process of attracting funding to help me with this. In view of this, I
am collecting suggestions and experience from my current and past
users, that is, you! If you are interested in seeing continued
development of Cadabra, could you spare a few minutes and send me an
email (long or short, whatever you have time for) answering
any/some/all of the questions below?

 - What do you think are the main things missing from Cadabra? Which
   aspects annoy you most? And which ones stand out as being very
   good?

 - Do you use other systems for similar computations? Which ones? Why?

 - What made you decide to use Cadabra? Are you still using it?

 - Any comments on the documentation?

 - Would you, or perhaps one of your students, be interested in
   helping with developing the Cadabra code?

 - Would you, or perhaps one of your students, be interested in
   helping with work on the algorithms underlying the Cadabra system?
   (group theory, graph theory, combinatorics, ...).

 - Are you interested in being on a mailing list for brainstorming
   about the future of Cadabra? Do you mind if I occasionally probe
   your interest via an email like this one?

 - Any other comments I have not thought of?

To give you a sneak preview of things I have in mind for the next
version:

 - Full support for component computations (e.g. computing Riemann
   curvature from the components of the metric, but more general for
   arbitrary tensor expressions).

 - Full support for spinors in arbitrary dimensions.

 - Integration with the Python language to give a full-fledged
   programming environment.

 - Native user interface on OS X (with the aim of ending the endless
   battle with the MacPorts version of Cadabra).

But please let me know if your favourite item is missing from this
list.

If you know people who are interested in Cadabra but have not cited my
work (so that I do not know they might be interested), please forward
this email to them. Many thanks!

Best regards,
Kasper
